In this lecture we're going to go ahead and take our two planks of wood and apply them toward drawing.
So first let's go out and select both our layers and them let's merge them together and using my marquee.
I'm going to go ahead and select one of them and then I'm going to copy and paste it into my drawing
document.
Then we can go ahead and shrink this down and rotate it.
We're going to do the same like we did with our first crate that we created.
And we're just going to create a panel of wooden boards.
We can also go ahead and drag this up to the top.
Above all of our drawing layers and we're also going to select all of our drawing layers and put those
into a folder so that we can turn them off and on with one click.
Now let's go ahead and come back into our document with our texture and let's select the other point
Colwood copy it and paste it and we can go ahead and shrink that down rotate it
and then we're going to go ahead and shrink that down to scale.
Next let's go ahead and copy the sky right here.
Paestum bring him to the top and just like we did before with our first crate.
Let's go ahead and flip this guy or Azonto and then we're going to flip him vertical.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and grab this guy right here.
They're going to select him copy them and paste them.
We'll track that up to the top
and then we're going to transform him and flip them horizontal then we're going to flip them vertical.
Great center.
And lastly let's go ahead and grab
this guy right here.
Copy and paste them and bring them to the top and get him into position.
Now this guy's not making it all the way up to the very top of our box and that's OK because we're going
to have the frame and the crossing boards going across this.
And so you're not going to see this area of that board.
Now let's go ahead and merge all these together.
Now let's go ahead and make a copy of this letter and drag that copy over like so used the Transform
Tool and then right click and come to distort and we'll just drag these points to the corner of our
crate.
Great.
Let's hit enter.
Let's do this once again.
Copy drag this guy over and then use our Transform Tool to not distort and get these corners in the
correct place.
Enter And we have a little bit of gap right there.
I want to go ahead and use the arrow keys on the keyboard not just over one.
Perfect.
Next let's go ahead and build our crossing pattern and our frame pattern so we can turn this guy off.
And now we're going to go ahead and copy this guy Paestum in.
And this is going to be exactly like what we did with the first crate.
So make sure we get that guy's portion is correct and the right size enter we're off by one pixel but
that's all we have to do is turn on the Transform Tool and drag it down.
Now sometimes it won't let you drag it one pick so unless you zoomed in enough.
So let's go ahead and hit enter so we can zoom in zoom all the way in there turn our transform and turn
our Transform Tool back on drag right down like so.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and turn down the opacity on the Slayer so we can see this edge right here.
Go ahead and just cut that away.
He's in our marquee tool and we'll turn the opacity back up.
Then let's select him copy them and paste them and we're going to rotate this guy.
I remember that we want the shadow edge on the inside of our frame and get this guy into position.
Now let's go ahead and flip this guy.
So he's not identical to this one.
So go control T and them are going to flip horizontal.
You don't want to flip it vertically because that's going to put our shadow on the top on the bottom
and hit enter and got noticed over.
So nudging back over with our air Keys.
Let's go ahead and select our other board.
Paste that in.
Shrink it down.
Enter the word pretty close.
It's gotten trinket just a little bit more air.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and check for on the edge.
So we want to right there.
Let's turn down the opacity so we can see the other end.
Will select up to that black line and then delete the opacity back up.
Now we'll go and select that copy it and paste it and rotate it.
Then let's flip it horizontally.
So it's the other opposite direction of the previous one but that in place needs to be stretched out
one pixel on the side.
Now we can hit enter and this guy right here.
He's overlapping right here and he shouldn't be.
So we're going to grab that layer drag it down beneath that layer.
Perfect.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and recopy this guy because we want the shadow
on both edges.
Paste them in and not shrink them down.
And we're going to rotate them to 45 degrees and then let's go ahead and try to fit him on there as
best as possible.
About that looks good we're like so perfect to enter.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and drag this guy underneath all of our other boards and now we can go ahead and
grab the other guy will copy and paste him and we'll rotate them 45 degrees shrink him down
and get them lined up.
Shrink them to about there get them into position and way enter.
Perfect.
Now I think this guy's supposed to be going across rather than that guy.
So don't go out and drag him down like so great.
Now before we can grab this pattern and apply it to our Krait what we need to do is we need to do a
little bit more hand painting to make this look more realistic.
So for example as these two boards meet up right here there's going to be just as much shadow on this
side as there already is right there.
So before we do this let's go ahead and merge all of these boards together.
So now those are all one layer and now we can go ahead and select the shape of that layer.
So we don't paint anywhere outside of it.
And then let's select this dark shadow color.
Then using my brush tool I can go ahead and paint in shadow on this side.
So I going to put my brush opacity at 3 percent just going to paint it just like so.
This just softens it and makes it look a little bit more realistic.
It also makes it look like the pieces of wood are actually budding up next to each other rather than
covering each other up
do the same here.
Whoops.
I'm noticing that we forgot to merge the sky with them.
So I'm going to go ahead and stop what I'm doing.
And gets that layer right there and I'm a slug.
Both these layers merge them together.
And then I'm going to go ahead and cut off this edge because it's over by one pixel.
Now we can go ahead and re select the shape of this and go back to what we were doing.
And on these corners if you can kind of give it a rounded edge to the shadow it'll make it look a lot
more realistic and natural
Grint.
Next what we want to do is we want to select our highlight color.
So grab this Gary here and we're just going to add a highlight to some of these areas.
So for example add it right here because the light is going to generally be coming down from the top.
We're only going to add that highlight to these top areas.
So and the reason why we're adding in this highlight is because like I said we want it to look like
these pieces of wood are on the same level and not one on top of the other.
And so by doing this it makes it look like there's more of a cavern going through right here rather
than this piece would being on top of that limb.
We can also add a little bit right there.
They're there a little bit.
They're
seem with down here
and pile up here.
So like I said just make sure you only add it to the areas that are going to be getting hit with white
on the top of them.
All right great.
Now we can go ahead and add this to our crate over here.
So let's go ahead and make a copy of this letter.
It's always important to keep copies.
That way you can always come back and redo things.
And then we're going to turn Transform Tool on distort.
We'll get that all lined up.
Let's do this once more.
Copy drag that over turn on the Transform Tool distort drag it over like so making sure everything lines
up correctly.
We don't get it lined up as perfectly as possible the perspective is going to look really funny.
All right.
Great.
Let's go ahead and just go over one so we get rid of that line that was in there.
Next what we want to do is we want to add that edge to these boards if you remember with our first crate
we added the edge on the inside of here to give it more dimension.
We're going to do the same thing here.
So let's go ahead and select the shape of our layer and then we're going to add a new layer underneath
that.
And then let's zoom in here and let's select our shadow color that's the color we want the edge of our
board to be so select that then I'll fill that in.
Then using my grab move tool and the arrow keys on my keyboard I can go ahead and nudge that over.
So about two times should be good.
If you're working on a larger scale you might have to nudge it over a little bit more next.
Let's go ahead and do the other side.
So going to select that shape add a new layer underneath it and fill that in with my shadow color then
I'll match that over like so.
We three times and then we can go ahead and use a murky tool to select this edge.
We can delete that.
Perfect.
So now this is looking pretty good.
Next let's go ahead and add in that dark shadow along the edges of the inside of these triangles like
we did with the other crate.
So I'm going to go ahead and select the shape again then add a new layer underneath it and we're going
to fill it in with black and then if you remember we come up to our filters come down to a blur and
come to a blur.
And right about there should be good we can play with this a little bit more if we want see what looks
best to us.
And I'm going to leave it there at about three point eight.
OK.
And then we want to select the shape underneath it.
So the shape right there and then will invert the selection and make sure you're still on the player
that has the black shadow.
And then we'll hit delete and let's go ahead and turn the opacity down to about 50 percent.
I think that looks good.
Let's do the same for our other side.
So select that shape add a new layer underneath it fill it in with black and then since we already have
a setting set up for the bowler we can go ahead and hit control f or Command F if you're on a Mac that
will automatically apply that then we're going to select the shape underneath invert the selection hit
delete.
And then we can go ahead and bring that opacity down to 50 percent.
Now the last thing we want to do is we want to go ahead and add a shadow to one of the sides.
So there's an actual highlight and shadow for the entire cube in hole.
So what we're going to do first is we're going to select all of our players make a copy of them.
Put those into a folder so we have those as backup.
And I'm going to turn that off then I'm going to go ahead and grab this guy right here and we're going
to drag him down to the bottom so we don't select him in our selection when we merge them are going
to select all of our other players and merge them together.
So now that box is one whole layer.
Now let's go ahead and add a layer above that.
And this time rather than selecting the shape of our crate and then Paignton in our shadow what we're
going to do is we're going to create something called a clipping mask and it could be masked does a
much better job of doing of what we're trying to do.
So what you need to do is you need to right click on your layer and then come up to where it says create
Clippy mask and you'll see that layer has moved over and there's a little arrow pointing down to the
layer underneath it.
That means it's a clipping mask for the layer underneath it which is the crate.
And what the clippy mask does is it doesn't allow you to paint anywhere else except for inside of the
shape of the layer that it's a clipping mask for.
So let me show you what I mean.
Let's select our shadow color.
So I'm going to grab a really dark blue
somewhere in here should be good.
And then using my brush tool and moving over to a hard edged brush I'm going to go ahead and paint in
that shadow like so and you'll see it won't paint anywhere else on this layer.
Even though I started clear up here it's still not painting outside of that.
The reason why this method is a lot better is because it gets all the way to the edge.
If you just select your shape there'll be a few pixels on the outside edges that don't get covered.
So creating a clipping mask is a much better method when you want to paint within a shape sometimes
a clipping mask doesn't work for what you're trying to do.
But for the most part it's going to be your best option.
Another nice thing about clipping masks is you can move the image around that's on the clipping layer
and it still won't really affect your layer underneath.
So what I mean by that is if I turn on my grab and move tool and then nudge my blue over with my arrow
key you'll see I can knock it over until I get it lined up with the edge of my crate.
But it also still stays within the shape of my crate.
So that's really useful too.
Now this time rather than change in our blood note from normal to overlay or multiply.
What we're going to do is we're just going to bring the opacity down.
Now I think my color is a little bit too light.
So what I'm gonna do is to come back into my colors come down to about there and I'm going to refill
that in and I'm getting this weird edge here that's pixilated.
So going to go ahead and select that and delete it.
And now let's go ahead and bring the opacity down on this layer and see how that looks.
We're going to bring it to about 75 percent.
And the reason why I'm leaving the blood note on normal is because I still want to keep that blue.
I don't want it to blend with my other colors and values.
I want it to look really blue on the side.
This is definitely a style choice.
And you don't have to do that but for me I think it looks much more interesting when my shadows are
really deep and rich cool colors.
So I'm going to leave it like that for now.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you were able to put your crate together and then you also learn how to create a
different type of shadow with really rich cool colors.
In the next lecture we're going to go ahead and add some more detail to the script such as nailheads.
And we're also going to add some cuts and scrapes on to it and then we're also going to paint in this
edge to be blunted a little bit more.
So it looks more hand-painted.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next select.